# ZRPL-TEST

This repository contains three programs that demonstrate key generation, encryption using a given keyword, and decryption.
## 1. api-key-gen.js

The `api-key-gen.js` file generates a pair of private key and a public key using the `crypto` module of node js. These generated keys are saved in the `key-pairs` directory as `private-key.pem` and `public-key.pem` files.

The program performs the following steps:
1. The required modules `crypto`, `fs`, and `path`are imported. crypto is used to generate, encrypt and decrypt keypairs and `fs` module is usedfor file handling. 
2. The `generateKeyPairSync` function from the `crypto` module generates the new pair of private and public keys.
3. Using the `path` module path to the `key-pairs` directory is defined.
4. This Writes the private key and public key to separate files in the `key-pairs` directory.
5. After that an HTML file (`key-gen.html`) is created in the `key-pairs` directory containing the generated private and public keys.
6. And a success messages is printed in the console

## 2. encrypt.js

The `encrypt.js` file demonstrates how to encrypt data using a public key. It reads the previously generated public key from the `key-pairs` directory and it takes a keyword from the user and encrypts that keyword using the `publicEncrypt` function from the `crypto` module. The encrypted data is then printed to the console and saved in an HTML file named `result.html`.

The program performs the following steps:
1. The required modules `crypto`, `fs`, and `path`are imported. crypto is used to generate, encrypt and decrypt keypairs and `fs` module is usedfor file handling. 
2. Here the previously generated public key from the `key-pairs` directory is read by using `readFileSync` function of fs module.
3. User profides a keyword (in this case, "hello") to encrypt.
4. This keyword given by user is then encrypted using the `publicEncrypt` function and the public key.
5. After that the result is printed in the console. that is given input(keyword) and the encrypted key.
6. Next a result.html file is created and the Input and the encrypted data is saved into html file.
7. And a success message is printed.

## 3. decrypt.js

The `decrypt.js` file demonstrates how to decrypt previously encrypted data using a private key. It reads the private key from the `key-pairs` directory and extracts the encrypted data from the `result.html` file generated by `encrypt.js`. The encrypted data is decrypted using the `privateDecrypt` function from the `crypto` module, and the decrypted result is printed to the console.

The program performs the following steps:
1. Imports required modules: `fs`, `path`, and `crypto`.
2. Reads the previously generated private key from the `key-pairs` directory.
3. Reads the content of the `result.html` file, which contains the encrypted keyword.
4. Uses a regular expression to extract the encrypted keyword from the `result.html` content.
5. Decrypts the encrypted keyword using the `privateDecrypt` function and the private key.
6. Prints the decrypted result to the console.

To test the gey generation, encryption and decryption mechanism
1. Clone the repository
2. Navigate inside the cloned repository
3. Run the below code in the terminal
```
node api-key-gen.js
node encrypt.js
node decrypt.js
```
